Experiments: Multiple runs in one process (#1279)
wandb/docs: content/guides/models/track/runs/multiple-runs-per-process.md

---

> description: Manage multiple runs in a single Python process using W&B’s `reinit` functionality

Reviewer: I don't think Markdown is supported in the front matter.

menu:
  default:
    identifier: multiple-runs
    parent: what-are-runs
title: Create and manage multiple runs in a single process
---

Manage multiple runs in a single Python process. This is useful for workflows where you want to keep a primary process active while creating short-lived secondary processes for sub-tasks. Some use cases include:

- Keeping a single “primary” run active throughout a script while spinning up short-lived “secondary” runs for evaluations or sub-tasks.  
- Orchestrating sub-experiments in a single file.  
- Logging from one “main” process to several runs that represent different tasks or time periods.

> By default, W&B assumes each Python process has only one active run at a time when you call `wandb.init()`. If you call `wandb.init()` again, W&B will either return the same run or finish the old run before starting a new one—depending on the configuration. The content in this guide explains how to use `reinit` to modify the `wandb.init()` behavior to enable multiple runs in a single Python process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, W&B assumes each Python process has only one active run at a time when you call `wandb.init()`. If you call `wandb.init()` again, W&B will either return the same run or finish the old run before starting a new one, depending on the configuration. The content in this guide explains how to use `reinit` to modify the `wandb.init()` behavior to enable multiple runs in a single Python process.
```

## `reinit` options

> Use the `reinit` parameter to determine how W&B handles multiple calls to `wandb.init()`. `reinit` accepts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `reinit` parameter to configure how W&B handles multiple calls to `wandb.init()`. Valid values are:
```

> - `create_new`: Create a new run (`wandb.init()`) without finishing existing, active runs. 

Reviewer: This would be easier to read as a table, I think, or as H3 headings where you can give the specifics about each one. There is some beefy stuff here that might get missed in the current presentation.

   * Ideal for creating and managing concurrent processes. For example, a “primary” run that remains active while you start or end “secondary” runs.
   * W&B does not automatically switch the global `wandb.run` to new runs. You must hold onto each run object yourself. See the [example]({{< relref "multiple-runs-per-process/#example-multiple-runs-in-one-process" >}}) below for details. 
- `finish_previous`: Finish all active runs with `run.finish()` before creating a new one run with `wandb.init()`. 
   * Ideal when you want to break sequential sub-processes into separate individual runs.
   * Default behaviour for non notebook environments.
- `return_previous`: Return the most recent, unfinished run.
   * This option does not create a new run.
   * Default behaviour for notebook environments.

{{% alert  %}}

> W&B does not support `create_new` mode for integrations that assume a single global run, such as Hugging Face Trainer, Keras callbacks, and PyTorch Lightning. If you use these integrations, you should run each sub-experiment in a separate process.

Reviewer: Is this the full set? If not, how can they know whether their integration has that limitation?

Reviewer 2: cc @timoffex to help answer here - more generally, would be good to understand what exactly we mean here by integration - is this any workflow that calls wandb.init() for the user?

Author: This might refer frameworks that we have an integration for? https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/integrations/   Summoning @timoffex for confirmation.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, missed the notification here!

> more generally, would be good to understand what exactly we mean here by integration - is this any workflow that calls wandb.init() for the user?

It's any workflow that uses `wandb` at all for the user. Some of these require the user to call `wandb.init()` and then use the global `wandb.run` by calling global functions like `wandb.log()`---these integrations will not work, and their error messages will confusingly suggest calling `wandb.init()` before using them even if the user already did.

It's not possible to have a full list of integrations because customers may have their own, private integrations with `wandb` and their own infra. The list @ngrayluna linked is a good resource though.

{{% /alert %}}

## Specifying `reinit`

<!-- There are several ways to create and manage multiple runs in a single Python process: -->

- Use `wandb.init()` with the `reinit` argument directly:
   ```python
   import wandb
   wandb.init(reinit="<create_new|finish_previous|return_previous>")
   ```
- Use `wandb.init()` and pass a `wandb.Settings` object to the `settings` parameter. Specify `reinit` in the `Settings` object:

   ```python
   import wandb
   wandb.init(settings=wandb.Settings(reinit="<create_new|finish_previous|return_previous>"))
   ```

- Use `wandb.setup()` to set the `reinit` option globally for all runs in the current process. This is useful if you want to configure the behavior once and have it apply to all subsequent `wandb.init()` calls in that process.

   ```python
   import wandb
   wandb.setup(wandb.Settings(reinit="<create_new|finish_previous|return_previous>"))
   ```

> - Specify the desired value for `reinit` in an environment variable `WANDB_REINIT`. Defining an environment variable applies the reinit option to `wandb.init()` calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify the desired value for `reinit` in the environment variable `WANDB_REINIT`. Defining an environment variable applies the reinit option to `wandb.init()` calls.
```

   ```bash
   export WANDB_REINIT="<create_new|finish_previous|return_previous>"
   ```

The following code snippet shows a high level overview how to set up W&B to create a new run each time you call `wandb.init()`:

```python
import wandb

wandb.setup(wandb.Settings(reinit="create_new"))

with wandb.init() as experiment_results_run:
   for ...:
      with wandb.init() as run:
         # The do_experiment() function logs fine-grained metrics

>          # to the given run and then returns result metrics that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         # to the given run and returns result metrics that
```

         # you want to track separately.
         experiment_results = do_experiment(run)

         # After each experiment, log its results to a parent
         # run. Each point in the parent run's charts corresponds
         # to one experiment's results.
         experiment_results_run.log(experiment_results)
```

> ## Example: Concurrent processes

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Example: Concurrent processes
```
This may not matter in the output but Github isn't doing a good job with the syntax highlighting in the diff.

> Suppose you want to create a primary process that remains open for the script's entire lifespan, while periodically spawning short-lived secondary processes without finishing the primary process. This may occur if you want to keep a primary run (like training a model) active while computing evaluations or other tasks in separate runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you want to create a primary process that remains open for the script's entire lifespan, while periodically spawning short-lived secondary processes without finishing the primary process. This may occur if you want to keep a primary run such as a training run active, while computing evaluations or other tasks in separate runs.
```

with wandb.init(
    project="my_project",
    name="tracking_run",
    reinit="create_new"
) as tracking_run:
    # 1) Train once under a sub-run named 'training_1'
    train("training_1")
    loss, accuracy = evaluate_loss_accuracy()
    tracking_run.log({"eval_loss": loss, "eval_accuracy": accuracy})

    # 2) Train again under a sub-run named 'training_2'
    train("training_2")
    loss, accuracy = evaluate_loss_accuracy()
    tracking_run.log({"eval_loss": loss, "eval_accuracy": accuracy})
    
    # The 'tracking_run' finishes automatically when this 'with' block ends.
```

Note three key points from the previous example:

1. `reinit="create_new"` creates a new run each time you call `wandb.init()`.
2. You keep references of each run. `wandb.run` does not automatically point to the new run created with `reinit="create_new"`. Store new runs in variables like `run_a`, `run_b1`, etc., and call `.log()` or `.finish()` on those objects as needed.
3. You can finish sub-runs whenever you want while keeping the primary run open until.
4. Finish your runs with `run.finish()` when you are done logging to them. This ensures that all data is uploaded and the run is properly closed.

 

> ### Considerations

Reviewer: Is this section specific to the example it is in, or did you mean for it to be an H2?

I'm not crazy about how this section looks / is structured in the output. The "if" in line 157 is doing a lot of work and could be missed. I wonder if this is actually a list of antipatterns. WDYT?

{{% /alert  %}}

## `reinit` options

Use the `reinit` parameter to configure how W&B handles multiple calls to `wandb.init()`. The following table describes valid arguments and their effects:

| | Description | Creates a run? | Example use case |
|----------------|----------------|----------------| -----------------|
| `create_new` |Create a new run with `wandb.init()` without finishing existing, active runs. W&B does not automatically switch the global `wandb.run` to new runs. You must hold onto each run object yourself. See the [example]({{< relref "multiple-runs-per-process/#example-multiple-runs-in-one-process" >}}) below for details.  | Yes |  Ideal for creating and managing concurrent processes. For example, a “primary” run that remains active while you start or end “secondary” runs.|
| `finish_previous` | Finish all active runs with `run.finish()` before creating a new one run with `wandb.init()`. Default behavior for non notebook environments. | Yes | Ideal when you want to break sequential sub-processes into separate individual runs. |
| `return_previous` |  Return the most recent, unfinished run. Default behavior for notebook environments. | No | |

{{% alert  %}}

> W&B does not support `create_new` mode for [W&B Integrations]({{< relref "/guides/integrations/_index.md" >}}) that assume a single global run, such as Hugging Face Trainer, Keras callbacks, and PyTorch Lightning. If you use these integrations, you should run each sub-experiment in a separate process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W&B does not support `create_new` mode for [W&B Integrations]({{< relref "/guides/integrations/" >}}) that assume a single global run, such as Hugging Face Trainer, Keras callbacks, and PyTorch Lightning. If you use these integrations, you should run each sub-experiment in a separate process.
```
I believe that you can't link to the underbar index, only to the directory it is in. It's the one wrinkle to `relref`.

   wandb.setup(wandb.Settings(reinit="<create_new|finish_previous|return_previous>"))
   ```

> - Specify the desired value for `reinit` in the environment variable `WANDB_REINIT`. Defining an environment variable applies the `reinit` option to `wandb.init()` calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify the desired value for `reinit` in the environment variable `WANDB_REINIT`. Each  `wandb.init()` call reads the environment variable if it is set.
```

Author: Good question, I am unsure if this is true....

Author: (Leaving out for now)

         # to one experiment's results.
         experiment_results_run.log(experiment_results)
```

## Example: Concurrent processes

> Suppose you want to create a primary process that remains open for the script's entire lifespan, while periodically spawning short-lived secondary processes without finishing the primary process. This may occur if you want to keep a primary run active, such as training a model, while computing evaluations or other tasks in separate runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you want to create a primary process that remains open for the script's entire lifespan, while periodically spawning short-lived secondary processes without finishing the primary process. For example, this pattern can be useful if you want to train a model in the primary run, but compute evaluations or do other work in separate runs.
```
